---
tags:
    - Legacy
---

# Manage the Microsoft AZ3166 IoT DevKit board

## Install

To install the Microsoft IoT DevKit board,

+ Ensure the Arduino tools, CLI or IDE, are installed.

+ Ensure the `arduino-cli.yaml` configuration file for Arduino-CLI or the **Additional boards manager URLs** for Arduino IDE includes

```
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/VSChina/azureiotdevkit_tools/master/package_azureboard_index.json
```

+ Open a **Terminal** window;

+ Run

```bash
arduino-cli core install AZ3166:stm32f4
```

For more information on the installation of the Arduino IDE,

+ Please refer to the [Get Started](https://microsoft.github.io/azure-iot-developer-kit/docs/get-started/) :octicons-link-external-16: page on the Microsoft website.

+ Download and install the Azure command line tool from the [macOS Azure Manual Installation](https://microsoft.github.io/azure-iot-developer-kit/docs/installation/) :octicons-link-external-16: page on the Microsoft website.

For more information on the Azure installation,

+ Please refer to the [Install Azure CLI 2.0](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-linux?pivots=apt) :octicons-link-external-16: page on the Microsoft website.

For more information on the board,

+ Please refer to the [MXChip IoT Developer Kit](https://microsoft.github.io/azure-iot-developer-kit) :octicons-link-external-16: page on the Microsoft website.

## Develop

The boards package includes all the libraries for WiFi, sensors and screen.

For more informations on the libraries,

+ Please refer to the [API reference](https://microsoft.github.io/azure-iot-developer-kit/docs/apis/arduino-language-reference/) :octicons-link-external-16:.

### Use the libraries for WiFi

+ Edit the main `Makefile` to list the required libraries.

``` CMake
APP_LIB_LIST = WiFi
```

+ Add to the main sketch

``` cpp
#include "AZ3166WiFi.h"
```

### Use the libraries for the sensors

The sensors include the HTS221 for humidity and temperature, the LPS22HB for pressure, the LIS2MDL for magnetometer and the LSM6DSL for accelerometer and gyroscope.

+ Edit the main `Makefile` to list the required libraries.

``` CMake
APP_LIB_LIST = Sensors
```

+ Add to the main sketch

``` cpp
#include "Sensors.h"
```

### Use the libraries for the display

There is no need to edit the main `Makefile`.

+ Add to the main sketch

``` cpp
#include "OledDisplay.h"
```

## Upload

For more information, 

+ Please refer to [Upgrade the bootloader for IoT DevKit](https://microsoft.github.io/azure-iot-developer-kit/docs/firmware-upgrading/) :octicons-link-external-16:.

## Debug

The Microsoft IoT DevKit board includes a DAP-Link debugger. It requires the ST-Link drivers.

+ Please refer to the procedure [Install the extensions for debugging](../../Install/Code/#install-the-extensions-for-debugging).

+ Register the `udev` profile for OpenOCD.

``` bash dollar
sudo cp ~/..arduino15/packages/AZ3166/tools/openocd/0.10.0/contrib/60-openocd.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/
sudo udevadm control --reload-rules
sudo usermod -a -G plugdev $(whoami)
```
